[VOICE OVER] Let’s explore three newer
technologies that can help keep credit card
information safe in card present situations,
which is when the cardholder and payment card
are both present.
“Chip” cards have replaced the magnetic stripe cards.
The chip embedded in the card generates a unique code
that is used for each transaction, making fraud almost
impossible when inserted into a terminal.
Contactless transactions use a tiny computer chip and a
radio wave to transmit account information from the card
to a terminal.
You can use these by simply putting the card next
to the terminal.
While convenient, these cards can be skimmed without ever
leaving your pocket.
Mobile device-based “wallets”, such as Apple Pay and
Google Wallet, are perhaps the most popular new
technology for credit cards.
Found even on smart watches, security is maintained
by using a “token”, or representation of the card,
rather than storing or sending a credit card number
during a transaction.
Note, these technologies do not improve the security
of card not present transactions, which are done
through the Internet, over the phone, or where the
card number is manually typed into the system.